feat!: OpenTelemetry metrics (#13232)
argoproj/argo-workflows: docs/metrics-3.6.md

Reviewer: Conventionally, this is placed in the Upgrading Guide (`docs/upgrading.md`)

Author: I've moved it. It's quite big, which is why I'd split it, but I don't mind either way.

# Metrics upgrade notes

> Metrics have changed between 3.5 and 3.6.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Metrics have changed in 3.6.
```

"between 3.5 and 3.6" is implicit, and it also affects versions prior to 3.5 as well, so remove that.
We also conventionally only state the version number things changed.

You can now retrieve metrics using the OpenTelemetry Protocol using the [OpenTelemetry collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/), and this is the recommended mechanism.

These notes explain the differences in using the prometheus `/metrics` endpoint to scrape metrics for a minimal effort upgrade. It is not recommended you follow this guide blindly, the new metrics have been introduced because they add value, and so they should be worth collecting and using.

## TLS

> The prometheus `/metrics` endpoint defaults to TLS on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Prometheus `/metrics` endpoint now has TLS enabled by default.
```

- add "now" to specify that this has changed -- it sounded like it but wasn't explicit
- "enabled by default" matches naming conventions

> To disable this set `.metricsConfig.secure` to `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To disable this set `metricsConfig.secure` to `false`.
```

The `.` prefix is not used anywhere else

> ## New metrics

Reviewer: hmm, this isn't a breaking change... we typically don't describe additions in the upgrading notes

Author: It is a breaking change for anyone who doesn't explicitly set `secure` in their configmap.

Reviewer: I was commenting on the "New Metrics" section, not the TLS bit. It's also the longest section, so removing it would make the upgrade notes a lot shorter.

I think conventionally we just add new features to the existing docs (no specific upgrade note for them in the docs, though maybe in the release blog post) and add the "v3.6 and after" modifier where needed.

Author: New metrics will get consumed into your data collection tool by default, which may be costly. It feels important to warn people that they could be in for an increased bill by upgrading if they don't do something about it. I'd only expect people to read the upgrading guide.

The following are new metrics:

* `build_info`
* `total_count`
* `pods_total_count`
* `controller_build_info`
* `cronworkflows_triggered_total`
* `workflowtemplate_triggered_total`
* `workflowtemplate_runtime`
* `k8s_request_duration`
* `queue_duration`
* `queue_longest_running`
* `queue_retries`
* `queue_unfinished_work`
* `pod_pending`

and can be disabled with

```yaml

> metricsConfig:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
metricsConfig: |
```

must be a string since this is in a ConfigMap

Author: Yep, sorted.

  options:
    build_info:
      disable: true
    total_count:
      disable: true
    pods_total_count:
      disable: true
    controller_build_info:
      disable: true
    cronworkflows_triggered_total:
      disable: true
    workflowtemplate_triggered_total:
      disable: true
    workflowtemplate_runtime:
      disable: true
    k8s_request_duration:
      disable: true
    queue_duration:
      disable: true
    queue_longest_running:
      disable: true
    queue_retries:

>       disable: true}

Reviewer: typo
```suggestion
      disable: true
```

Author: Sorted, thanks.

>     total_count:
>       disable: true
>     pods_total_count:
>       disable: true
>     controller_build_info:
>       disable: true
>     cronworkflows_triggered_total:
>       disable: true
>     workflowtemplate_triggered_total:
>       disable: true
>     workflowtemplate_runtime:
>       disable: true
>     k8s_request_duration:
>       disable: true
>     queue_duration:
>       disable: true
>     queue_longest_running:
>       disable: true
>     queue_retries:
>       disable: true}
>     queue_unfinished_work:
>       disable: true
>     pod_pending:
>       disable: true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

we really only need to show one of these as an example, the rest are redundant. let's keep things simple and concise, per the k8s style guide

```

## Renamed metrics

> If you are using these metrics in your recording rules, dashboards or alerts you will need to use their new name after the upgrade:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using these metrics in your recording rules, dashboards, or alerts, you will need to update their names after the upgrade:
```

missing commas

Also I really think this section and the next one should be above "New Metrics" -- they are breaking changes and so are most notable, while the rest are additions. It should be in order of importance / highest impact to existing users
